Rework of protocol based on IETF 113 feedback (#14)
tfpauly/draft-ohai-svcb-config: draft-pauly-ohai-svcb-config.md

> of Designated Resolvers ({{!DDR=I-D.draft-ietf-add-ddr}}. Clients

Reviewer: We may want to elaborate on the deployment model assumed by this draft for DDR and DNR. For example, (1) the DNS server needs to have public access for the oblivious proxy to access it (2) client has an prior agreement with the oblivious proxy that the name and path of the oblivous target is encoded using a particular proxy URI template.

Author: Added text at the start of the oblivious DNS section for this!

Reviewer: Thanks.

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# The oblivious SvcParamKey

The "oblivious" SvcParamKey {{iana}} is used to indicate that a service
described in an SVCB record can act as an oblivious target. Clients
can issue requests to this service through an oblivious proxy once
they learn the key configuration to use to encrypt messages to the
oblivious target.

Both the presentation and wire format values for the "oblivious"
parameter MUST be empty.

> The "oblivious" parameter can be included in the mandatory parameter

Reviewer: I am not sure why a target would only support oblivious HTTP for DNR/DDR use cases, please elaborate.

Author: It could have multiple services listed — one generic DoH for DDR, and an entirely different record for their ODoH server.

Reviewer: It would be helpful to mention the above explanation in the DDR section.

Author: Added text in this section where we define the oblivious parameter.

For example, an HTTPS service record for svc.example.com that supports
an oblivious target could look like this:

~~~
svc.example.com. 7200  IN HTTPS 1 . alpn=h2,h2 oblivious
~~~

A similar record for a service that only support oblivious connectivity
could look like this:

~~~
oblivious-svc.example.com. 7200  IN HTTPS 1 . (
    mandatory=oblivious oblivious )
~~~

## Use in DNS server SVCB records

For the "dns" scheme, as defined in {{DNS-SVCB}}, the presence of
the "oblivious" parameter means that the DNS server being
described is an Oblivious DNS over HTTP (DoH) service. The default
media type expected for use in Oblivious HTTP to DNS resolvers
is "application/dns-message" {{!DOH=RFC8484}}.

### Use with DDR {#ddr}

Clients can discover an oblivious DNS server configuration using
DDR, by either querying _dns.resolver.arpa to a locally configured
resolver or querying using the name of a resolver {{DDR}}.

For example, a DoH service advertised over DDR can be annotated
as supporting oblivious resolution using the following record:

~~~
_dns.resolver.arpa  7200  IN SVCB 1 doh.example.net (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} oblivious )
~~~

> In the case of oblivious DNS servers, the client might not be able to

Reviewer: The line does is no longer relevant. The client will anyway have to connect to the oblivious target to discover the key config.

Author: No, it is still relevant — it may not direct connect to the IP address, it can go through a proxy.

Reviewer: If the client uses a proxy (e.g., HTTP CONNECT), it can still validate the TLS server certificate of the oblivious DNS server. I prefer the client validating the target certificate itself rather than relying on the oblivious proxy to do the validation on its behalf.

Author: Ah, I see. I've re-written this paragraph to just say to do the normal TLS cert check!

key configurations that would reveal their identity. See {{security}} for
more discussion.

# Configuration Well-Known URI

> Once a client has discovered that a service is available as an oblivious
> target, it needs to know the key configuration before sending oblivious
> requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clients that know a service is available as an oblivious target, e.g., 
either via discovery through the "oblivious" parameter in a SVCB or HTTPS
record, or by configuration, need to know the key configuration before sending
oblivious requests.
```

Since the URI is separate from the discovery mechanism and could be used even for manually configured client/target arrangements.

This document defines a well-known URI {{!RFC8615}}, "oblivious-configs",
that allows a target to host its configurations.

> The URI is constructed using the TargetName in the SVCB record.

Reviewer 2: Rather than use the TargetName directly, should clients chase TargetNames down to a terminal node in the SVCB chain? For example, if _dns.resolver.arpa targets doh.example, and doh.example targets jk-this-doh.example, presumably the target the client should use is jk-this-doh.example, right?

Author: Clarified that this should be off of the ServiceMode.

For example, the URI for the following record:

~~~
svc.example.com. 7200  IN HTTPS 1 . alpn=h2,h2 oblivious
~~~

would be "https://svc.example.com/.well-known/oblivious-configs".

As another example, the URI for the following record:

~~~
_dns.resolver.arpa  7200  IN SVCB 1 doh.example.net (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} oblivious )
~~~

would be "https://doh.example.net/.well-known/oblivious-configs".

> The content of this resource is expected to be "application/ohttp-keys",

Reviewer: Is it possible for the client to discover multiple key configurations using the well-known URI ?

Author: Yes — the struct for `application/ohttp-keys` can contain multiple key configs

as defined in {{OHTTP}}.

> Before being able to use a server as an oblivious target, clients need

Reviewer: Directly connecting to the oblivious target will expose the client IP address to the oblivious target, we may want to discuss the privacy implications.

Author: I added more text about that in security considerations.

to use this URI to fetch the configuration. They can either fetch it

> directly, or do so via a proxy in order to avoid the server discovering

Reviewer: We can refer to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-schwartz-ohai-consistency-doublecheck/, it discusses key consistency double check procedure.

Author: I'd rather not refer to that right now, since that's relying on configuration fetching that we don't have consensus on yet.

Reviewer: Fair point, we can revisit it later.

information about the client's identity. See {{security}} for more
discussion of avoiding key targeting attacks.

> # Security and Privacy Considerations {#security}

Reviewer: The proposed mechanism is susceptible to downgrade attack (not to use oblivious HTTP). I mean an attacker removing the oblivious SvcParamKey from the DNS response. Couple of possible ways to mitigate the attack could be (1) to perform the DNS SVCB query again after secure transport connection is established with the discovered DNS resolver (2) Rely on DNSSEC.

Author: Added text in the security considerations section!

> # Security and Privacy Considerations {#security}

Reviewer: We may want to refer to the Security Considerations discussed in https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-add-svcb-dns-03#section-8.

Author: Added a reference!

attacks. {{?CONSISTENCY=I-D.draft-wood-key-consistency}} provides an analysis
of the options for ensuring the key configurations are consistent between

> different clients. Clients SHOULD employ some technique to mitigate key

Reviewer: We may want to consider discussing the client behavior if the oblivious target stops publishing the key config or publishes a unique key per client.

Author: Hm, I'm not sure exactly what to say at this point for that.

Reviewer: If the oblivious target stops publishing the key config or publishes a unique key per client, the client must not use the discovered oblivious DNS server and will fallback to use the pre-configured oblivious DNS server.

Author: Added a sentence here about not using servers that do key targeting.

> targetting attack.

Reviewer 2: I might add some text here about how the SVCB parameter is just a hint, and clients _could_ choose to query every target for their oblivious configs if they wanted to. In that way, DNSSEC isn't required -- it's just an optimization.

Author: Added text about being a hint earlier in the security section.
